1. What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange" -- String
42 -- Integer
09/02/1945 -- Date
98.7 -- Float
$15.99 -- Float

2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

A database is used when data for an application is being added, removed or changed. This is
especially true with applications that utilize large amounts of data. Alternatively, text files
are used for data that remains constant. The data entered through text files would not typically
be modified, deleted, or added to.

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

SQL is a declarative language, where you do not need to provide an algorithm to search and retrieve
data. You tell the database server what information you'd like, with the proper syntax, and the server
returns that data.

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.

Relational databases work by 'linking' multiple tables together through Primary and Foreign Keys. These 'keys' are
unique pieces of information that differentiate one record from another. With Relational Databases, unique groups of information
are stored in their own table.

For instance, a database with employee information may have a table for employee names and IDs,
and another for the employee contact information. These two tables would be 'linked' together through the employee ID (PK).
On the table level, information is stored using rows and columns, where columns identify the information and rows hold
unique records.

5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

A table is a collection of rows and columns that, typically, holds information for one unique area. For instance, employee
names and their associated employee IDs. Rows represent each individual record in the table, in this case, the individual
employee. Columns are responsible for identifying and holding unique fields. In our example, one column would hold the employee
name and another would hold the employee ID. Rows and Columns create cells that hold values. These values are representative
of the information defined by the column. For instance, the employee name value would be a string ('Adam Jones') and the ID
would be an integer (6472).

6. List three data types that can be used in a table.

Three data types that can be used in a table are Integers, Booleans, and Strings.

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

  - Select the data and amount columns from the 'Payments' table // Would return x amount of records and two columns, one with the Date
    and another with the amount.

  - Select the amount column for all records in the 'Payments' table over 500 // Would return the amounts for all records over 500.

  - Select all records from the 'Payments' table where the payee is Mega Foods // Would return all Mega Foods records.


8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.

  SELECT email, signup
  FROM users
  WHERE userid = 2;

The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.

  SELECT userid
  FROM users
  WHERE email LIKE 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

  SELECT * FROM users
  WHERE userid = 4;
